


The 2026 FIFA World Cup opening ceremonies took place in three parts, one for each host nation (Mexico, Canada and the United States) of the 2026 FIFA World Cup hosting their respective opening match on June 11 and 12, 2026.

The Mexican opening ceremony was the first and main ceremony featuring the flag parade and the performance of the official world cup song "Dai Dai" by Shakira and Burna Boy, and took place on Thursday, June 11, 2026 at the Estadio Azteca in Mexico City ahead of the opening match of the tournament. The Canadian and American opening ceremonies took place at BMO Field, Toronto and SoFi Stadium, Los Angeles on Friday, June 12, 2026 respectively.

The ceremonies were produced by Italian creative director Marco Balich, with each capturing aspects of the host country's history and culture.

Opening ceremony in Mexico

The ceremony in Mexico lasted around fifteen minutes and began with a showcase of indigenous Mexican dancers in various clothing as well as dancers dressed in silver and gold surrounding an inflated version of the World Cup trophy with Mexican motifs as messages of unity and diversity were announced. Following the opening, Maná performed "Oye Mi Amor" with the indigenous dancers surrounding the stage. Afterwards, Danny Ocean performed "Partidazo" surrounded by female dancers dressed in china poblana dresses. This was followed by Los Ángeles Azules and Belinda performing "Por Ella" surrounded by male dancers dressed in charro outfits and performing a stylized version of the jarabe with the female dancers. Two Labubus appeared holding a plush of the World Cup trophy followed by J Balvin and Ryan Castro performing a medley of songs including "Qué Calor", "Una a la Vez", and "I Like It", surrounded by dancers in suits matching the color scheme of the tournament. Shakira and Burna Boy closed the opening ceremony with a performance of the tournament's official song "Dai Dai" followed by flairs in the colors of the Mexican flag and a fireworks display. The ceremony was followed by the flag ceremony where all 48 flags of the participating teams were displayed and their names were announced in both English and Spanish. Andrea Bocelli and Ejae then performed the tournament's official anthem "DNA (More Than a Game)". After that, Tyla performed the national anthem of South Africa while Alejandro Fernández sang the Mexican national anthem.

Songs

Opening ceremony in Canada

The ceremony in Canada lasted around fifteen minutes and began with William Prince delivering a land acknowledgement as well as a welcome message highlighting the bridge between Indigenous Canadians and the diversity of Canadians followed with a performance of Indigenous Canadians dancers. Afterwards, Alessia Cara performed a medley of "Wild Things" and "Fire" as dancers with maple leaf mosaics as well as a stylized moose, polar bear, and humpback whale surrounded the stage to highlight animals native to Canada. This was followed by Nora Fatehi, Vegedream, and Sanjoy  performing "Siir Siir" and Jessie Reyez and Elyanna performing "Illuminate" as the inflated trophy with Canadian motifs was raised while falling apart and additional dancers in red and white outfits surrounded the stage. Following this, the flag ceremony took place where the flags of all 48 participating teams were displayed and their names were announced in both English and French. Following this, Michael Bublé and The Sole Power Choir performed a cover of "Bring It On Home to Me". Alanis Morissette sang the Canadian national anthem  and Aleksandar Gajić, a Yugoslav violinist, performed the Bosnian and Herzegovinan national anthem on a violin. After that, a flyover was conducted by the Canadian Forces Snowbirds.

Songs

Opening ceremony in the United States

The opening ceremony in the United States lasted around fifteen minutes and began with a costumed representation of George Washington and a drumline dressed in red and blue with a gold star as well as a speech highlighting the diversity, culture and principles of the United States as well as acknowledging the United States Semiquincentennial. Afterwards, Future and Tyla performed "Game Time" surrounded by dancers dressed in red, white, blue as well as gold while the inflated trophy with American motifs was raised. Afterwards Lisa, Anitta, and Rema performed "Goals" surrounded by dancers as well as landmarks of Los Angeles and other American cities. Afterwards, the flag ceremony took place displaying the flags and reading the names of all 48 participating teams in English and was followed with a performance of "Wonder" by Katy Perry and Tius Luka. Finally, Dan + Shay performed the American national anthem while Purahéi Soul  performed the Paraguayan national anthem before the match, concluding the ceremony which portrayed the global appeal of the American culture and its entertainment industry.

Songs

Dignitaries in attendance

Unlike previous World Cups, the leaders of each host country did not attend their opening ceremonies for various reasons. Mexican president Claudia Sheinbaum gave her ticket away to a fan amidst the controversy with high ticket prices and protests against several of her policies, Canadian prime minister Mark Carney did not attend due to plans to head to the 52nd G7 summit in France, and American president Donald Trump did not attend due to plans and preparation surrounding UFC Freedom 250. Former Canadian prime minister Justin Trudeau attended the American opening ceremony at SoFi Stadium in an unofficial capacity. This decision was criticized as being disrespectful by some Canadian fans for choosing to attend the American ceremony over the Canadian one.

See also

References

