



The 2026 FIFA World Cup is an ongoing international football tournament being held in Canada, Mexico, and the United States, from June 11 to July 19, 2026. The 48 national teams involved in the tournament were required to register a squad of up to 26 players, including three goalkeepers. Only players in these squads will be eligible to take part in the tournament.

A provisional release list of between 35 and 55 players per national team had to be submitted to FIFA by May 11, 2026, one month prior to the opening match of the tournament. The release lists were not made public by FIFA. From the preliminary squad, the final list of at least 23 and at most 26 players (at least three of whom
shall be goalkeepers) per national team had to be submitted to FIFA by June 1, ten days prior to the opening match of the tournament. The squad lists were published by FIFA the following day. In the event that a player on the submitted squad list suffers from an injury or illness prior to his team's first match of the tournament, that player could be replaced at any time up to 24 hours before their first match. The team doctor and the FIFA General Medical Officer have to both confirm that the injury or illness is severe enough to prevent the player from participating in the tournament. Replacement players are limited to the preliminary list.

The position listed for each player is per the official squad list published by FIFA. The age listed for each player is as of June 11, 2026, the first day of the tournament. The numbers of caps and goals listed for each player do not include any matches played after the start of the tournament. The club listed is the club for which the player last played a competitive match prior to the tournament. The nationality for each club reflects the national association (not the league) to which the club is affiliated. A flag is included for coaches who are of a different nationality to their team.

Group A

Czech Republic

Coach: Miroslav Koubek

The Czech Republic announced a 54-man preliminary squad on May 12. The squad was reduced to 29 players on May 21. They announced their final squad on May 31.

Mexico

Coach: Javier Aguirre

Mexico announced a 55-man preliminary squad on May 12. The squad was reduced to 51 players on May 23. They announced their final squad on May 31.

South Africa

Coach:  Hugo Broos

South Africa announced a 32-man preliminary squad on May 21. They announced their final squad on May 27.

South Korea

Coach: Hong Myung-bo

South Korea announced their final squad on May 16. Cho Yu-min withdrew injured and was replaced by Cho Wi-je on May 31.

Group B

Bosnia and Herzegovina

Coach: Sergej Barbarez

Bosnia and Herzegovina announced their final squad on May 11. Osman Hadžikić withdrew injured and was replaced by Mladen Jurkas on June 1. Nidal Čelik withdrew injured and was replaced by Arjan Malić on June 11.

Canada

Coach:  Jesse Marsch

Canada announced a 32-man preliminary squad on May 25. They announced their final squad on May 29. Marcelo Flores withdrew injured on May 31 and was replaced by Jayden Nelson on June 9.

Qatar

Coach:  Julen Lopetegui

Qatar announced a 34-man preliminary squad on May 12. The squad was extended to 35 players on May 18, then reduced to 28 players on May 25. They announced their final squad on June 1.

Switzerland

Coach: Murat Yakin

Switzerland announced their final squad through a social media campaign on May 18 and 19, which was officially confirmed on May 20.

Group C

Brazil

Coach:  Carlo Ancelotti

Brazil announced a 55-man preliminary squad on May 12. They announced their final squad on May 18. Wesley withdrew injured and was replaced by Éderson Silva on June 7.

Haiti

Coach:  Sébastien Migné

Haiti announced their final squad on May 15. Leverton Pierre withdrew injured and was replaced by Garven Metusala on June 11.

Morocco

Coach:nationality is Moroccan, per https://inside.fifa.com/en/associations/MAR/organisation Mohamed Ouahbi

Morocco announced their final squad on May 26. Abde Ezzalzouli and Nayef Aguerd withdrew injured and were replaced by Amine Sbaï and Marwane Saâdane on June 10, respectively.

Scotland

Coach: Steve Clarke

Scotland announced their final squad on May 19. Billy Gilmour withdrew injured on May 30, and was replaced by Tyler Fletcher on May 31.

Group D

Australia

Coach: Tony Popovic

Australia announced their final squad on May 31.

Paraguay

Coach:  Gustavo Alfaro

Paraguay announced a 55-man preliminary squad on May 12. They announced their final squad on June 1.

Turkey

Coach:  Vincenzo Montella

Turkey announced a 35-man preliminary squad on May 18. Their final squad was announced on June 2.

United States

Coach:  Mauricio Pochettino

The United States announced their final squad on May 26.

Group E

Curaçao

Coach:  Dick Advocaat

Curaçao announced their final squad on May 18.

Ecuador

Coach:  Sebastián Beccacece

Ecuador announced their final squad on May 31.

Germany

Coach: Julian Nagelsmann

Germany announced their final squad on May 21. Lennart Karl withdrew injured and was replaced by Assan Ouédraogo on June 5.

Ivory Coast

Coach: Emerse Faé

Ivory Coast announced their final squad on May 15. Clément Akpa withdrew injured and was replaced by Christopher Opéri on May 29.

Group F

Japan

Coach: Hajime Moriyasu

Japan announced their final squad on May 15. Wataru Endo withdrew injured and was replaced by Shūto Machino on June 11.

Netherlands

Coach: Ronald Koeman

The Netherlands announced their final squad on May 27. Jurriën Timber withdrew injured and was replaced by Lutsharel Geertruida on June 8.

Sweden

Coach:  Graham Potter

Sweden announced their final squad on May 12. Emil Holm withdrew injured and was replaced by Herman Johansson on May 30.

Tunisia

Coach:  Sabri Lamouchi (first match) /  Hervé Renard (remaining matches)

Tunisia announced their final squad on May 15. Coach Sabri Lamouchi was fired after the first match on June 15, and was replaced by Hervé Renard the next day.

Group G

Belgium

Coach:  Rudi Garcia

Belgium announced their final squad on May 15.

Egypt

Coach: Hossam Hassan

Egypt announced a 27-man preliminary squad on May 20. They announced their final squad on May 30.

Iran

Coach: Amir Ghalenoei

Iran announced a 30-man preliminary squad on May 16. The squad was extended to 31 players on May 21. They announced their final squad on June 1.

New Zealand

Coach:  Darren Bazeley

New Zealand announced their final squad on May 14. Matthew Garbett withdrew injured with a hamstring injury and was replaced by Logan Rogerson on June 15.

Group H

Cape Verde

Coach: Bubista

Cape Verde announced their final squad on May 18.

Saudi Arabia

Coach:  Georgios Donis

Saudi Arabia announced a 30-man preliminary squad on May 23. They announced their final squad on May 31.

Spain

Coach: Luis de la Fuente

Spain announced their final squad on May 25.

Uruguay

Coach:  Marcelo Bielsa

Uruguay announced their final squad on May 31.

Group I

France

Coach: Didier Deschamps

France announced their final squad on May 14.

Iraq

Coach:  Graham Arnold

Iraq announced a 34-man preliminary squad on May 19. They announced their final squad on June 1. Ahmed Yahya withdrew injured with a hamstring injury and was replaced by Ahmed Maknzi on June 6.

Norway

Coach: Ståle Solbakken

Norway announced their final squad on May 21.

Senegal

Coach: Pape Thiaw

Senegal announced a 28-man preliminary squad on May 21. They announced their final squad on June 1.

Group J

Algeria

Coach:  Vladimir Petković

Algeria announced their final squad on May 31.

Argentina

Coach: Lionel Scaloni

Argentina announced a 55-man preliminary squad on May 11. They announced their final squad on May 28. Leonardo Balerdi withdrew due to a calf injury on June 6 and was replaced by Marcos Senesi on June 11.

Austria

Coach:  Ralf Rangnick

Austria announced their final squad on May 18. Christoph Baumgartner withdrew injured on June 2 and was replaced by Dejan Ljubičić on June 10.

Jordan

Coach:  Jamal Sellami

Jordan announced a 30-man preliminary squad on May 17. The squad was reduced to 28 players on May 27. Their final squad was announced on June 2. Ibrahim Sabra withdrew injured on June 5 and was replaced by Mohammad Taha on June 8.

Group K

Colombia

Coach:  Néstor Lorenzo

Colombia announced a 55-man preliminary squad on May 14. They announced their final squad on May 25.

DR Congo

Coach:  Sébastien Desabre

DR Congo announced their final squad on May 18. Rocky Bushiri withdrew injured and was replaced by Aaron Tshibola on May 20.

Portugal

Coach:  Roberto Martínez

Portugal announced their final squad on May 19.

Uzbekistan

Coach:  Fabio Cannavaro

Uzbekistan announced a 40-man preliminary squad on May 5. The squad was reduced to 39 players on May 22 as Ibrokhimkhalil Yuldoshev withdrew injured, then to 30 players on May 24. Their final squad was announced on June 2. Jaloliddin Masharipov withdrew due to a back injury and was replaced by Ruslanbek Jiyanov on June 15.

Group L

Croatia

Coach: Zlatko Dalić

Croatia announced their final squad on May 18.

England

Coach:  Thomas Tuchel

England announced their final squad on May 22. Tino Livramento withdrew injured and was replaced by Trevoh Chalobah on June 16.

Ghana

Coach:  Carlos Queiroz

Ghana announced a 28-man preliminary squad on May 25. Alexander Djiku withdrew injured and was replaced by Derrick Luckassen on June 1. They announced their final squad on June 2.

Panama

Coach:  Thomas Christiansen

Panama announced their final squad on May 26.

Statistics

Age

Players

Outfield players

Goalkeepers

Captains

Coaches

Player representation by club

Player representation by league system

Nations in bold are represented at the tournament.

Player representation by club confederation

Average age of squads

Coach representation by country

Coaches in bold represent their own country.

Notes

References

External links

