



The following is a list of match officials (referees, assistant referees, and video assistant referees) who are officiating at the 2026 FIFA World Cup in Canada, Mexico, and the United States. The list also includes the appointments received by each match official.

Referees and assistant referees

On April 9, 2026, FIFA announced the list of 52 referees, 88 assistant referees, and 30 video assistant referees for the tournament. The 2026 tournament features six female match officials, matching the record for the highest number of female officials appointed to a men's World Cup.

Tori Penso (United States) and Katia Itzel García (Mexico) were selected as referees, making them the first female on-field referees from their respective nations to officiate a men's World Cup tournament. They were joined by assistant referees Brooke Mayo (United States), Kathryn Nesbitt (United States), and Sandra Ramírez (Mexico), as well as Tatiana Guzmán (Nicaragua), who serves as a video assistant referee. On June 18, 2026, Penso, Mayo, and Nesbitt became the second all-female on-field refereeing trio at a men's World Cup, taking charge of the Group A match between Czechia and South Africa at Atlanta Stadium.

Additionally, Omar Artan from Somalia was originally selected to officiate at the tournament. However, he was removed from the list after being refused entry to the United States at Miami International Airport. Despite holding valid travel documentation, he was declared inadmissible due to "vetting concerns" and alleged "association with suspected members of terror organizations". Artan strongly denied any links to terror groups. Upon his return to Somalia, it was announced that Artan would receive his full World Cup salary despite not being able to officiate in the tournament.

Video assistant referees

On May 7, 2026, Willy Delajod was chosen as a last-minute addition to the video match official team. On May 15, Delajod's additional was confirmed as a replacement of Dutch VAR Rob Dieperink, who was abruptly dropped by FIFA following his arrest in England.

Notes

References

External links

